On: which lisp to learn
Surely this depends on WHY you want to learn Lisp.

If you have an interest in academic computer science or want to get 
boned up on programming in general, learning Scheme and running through 
Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs is probably the way to go. 
Scheme is a relatlvely small and clean Lisp, and SICP was the much-loved 
introduction to programming for completely new MIT freshmen until recently, 
running through a broad range of concepts beginning with recursion and 
ending up with compilation.

If you want a trusted, stable, language for writing native applications in,
then Common Lisp would likely be the one to pick. It's got a standard, 
it's been around forever, it's designed for real-world use (whereas Scheme 
has a more academic bent). Common Lisp is likely the mainstream choice. 
If people use the term 'Lisp' without qualifiers, chances are they mean 
Common Lisp. Also, if you want a comparative exercise focusing on the 
things Lisp does differently from other languages, I'd guess that Common 
Lisp has the largest library of books concentrating on specific Lispisms 
like macros and lisp methods of object orientation and whatnot.

If you want to be one of the cool kids and indulge in buzzword-compliant 
concurrent and/or functional-programming for web 3.0 frameworks or big data 
or whathaveyou, then Clojure is probably the lisp you want on your resumé. 
As an added bonus, the main language targets the JVM as a platform (though 
there are others - Clojurescript is a popular variant that compiles to 
Javascript and runs in the browser) so you get Java libraries for free; 
if you have a Java background you might have a bit of a head start with 
learning it, at the cost of a few platform-specific warts here and there.

There are other lisps around - Racket is some flavour of Scheme that has 
a bit of a community out there, Guile and Emacs Lisp are common embedded 
Lisps in certain applications, and then there's Arc, formerly the saviour 
of Lisp, but nowadays the language-that-ycombinator's-site-is-wrote-in and 
not much else...